data base querying languaguages

    - SQL - declarative DB programing lang for relational DBs
    - NOSQL - imparative DB programing lang for document based DBs

Data models

    Your data models of choice is a fuction of relationship complexities between your user data.

    The type of data models you choose determines the DB to choose

    1. NOSQL DBs model --> when there are little to no relationship between data. uses path to navigate to resources

    2. SQL DBS model --> when there are relationship between user data. uses FK to navigate.

    3. Graph DBS model --> when there are complex relationship between user data.

    Note: A relational db is used here as well, the difference is how  it is setup

    Example:

        CREATE TABLE vertices (
            vertex_id integerPRIMARYKEY,
            properties json
        );
        CREATE TABLE edges (
            edge_id integer PRIMARY KEY,
            tail_vertex integer REFERENCES vertices (vertex_id), head_vertex integer REFERENCES vertices (vertex_id), label text,
            properties json
        );
        CREATE INDEX edges_tails ON edges (tail_vertex);
        CREATE INDEX edges_heads ON edges (head_vertex);



    A graph consists of two kinds of objects: vertices (also known as nodes or entities) and edges (also known as relationships or arcs). Many kinds of data can be modeled as a graph. Typical 
    
    examples include:

    Social graphs
    Vertices are people, and edges indicate which people know each other.
    The web graph
    Vertices are web pages, and edges indicate HTML links to other pages.
    Road or rail networks
    Vertices are junctions, and edges represent the roads or railway lines between them.

    Well-known algorithms can operate on these graphs: for example, car navigation sys‐ tems search for the shortest path between two points in a road network, and PageRank can be used on the web graph to determine the popularity of a web page and thus its ranking in search results.

    Types of graph model:

    1. property graph model (implemented by Neo4j, Titan, and InfiniteGraph)

    The Cypher Query Language
    Cypher is a declarative query language for property graphs, created for the Neo4j graph database

    2. triple-store model (implemented by Datomic, AllegroGraph, and others)

    


MapReduce Querying
MapReduce is a programming model for processing large amounts of data in bulk across many machines, popularized by Google.

 